A pie chart is used to illustrate proportionality.
If we have a whole group of some sort,
such as a list of all players in a baseball league and their positions,
a pie chart can tell us what percentages of the whole group are in each position.
Think of it as slicing the pie into pieces,
where each piece matches a percentage of the whole list.
In spreadsheets this is really easy,
because all we need is a list of the categories
and matching values such as sums or counts.
Select the list of categories and values,
go to the Insert menu and choose the pie chart. There it is.
It might not look quite the way we want yet,
but there are some easy fixes for that too.
When the chart is selected,
a design and format menu are available on the Excel ribbon.
The design menu gives a number of choices: I'll
choose this one because I like seeing the percentages on the pie.
I can change the chart title to something more useful by editing it.
There's more that you can do to change the appearance of the graph,
but this gets it started.
We'll go into more detail on how to polish the look later.
For this example I already had a simple list that I highlighted,
but I could have used the pivot table we created earlier with some careful selection.
Here's the pivot table.
The position categories are in the top row and the totals are in the bottom row.
Select the categories, then either hold down the control key on Windows,
or the Command key on Apple keyboards to select the bottom row with your mouse.
It works most reliably to copy these and
then paste this little collection somewhere else.
I'm going to paste using the transpose feature.
So I have columns,
then select and choose the insert pie chart as before.
We get the exact same thing.
Now it's your turn to explore creating pie charts.